--- 
title: IKIGAI
categories: [Generic topic]
tagline: Ikigai
description: Ikigai - A Reason For Being
tags: [toastmasters, public-speaking, speech, interesting-topics]
date: 2025-05-18 00:00:00 +0530
name: Ikigai, PublicSpeaking
type: PublicSpeaking
last_modified_at: 2024-06-01 00:00:00 +0530
description: What is Ikigai?
subType: Blog 
---

<div align="justify">
<i>When you all get up in the morning, what are few things that gives you <b>purpose in life</b>?.</i> 

<br>
<br>
Why did I pose this question? Because not everyone has any purpose in life and a life without purpose is monotonous to most, if not everyone. 
</div>

# Reality of Life

<div align="justify">
Let's get to the reality of life. Life is majorly survival and a race to succeed. Many folks have days that are not satisfying to them. The misery creeps up on people. We start thinking about dreadful Mondays, go to work, they wait till the next break and cycle repeats. Monotonous life is not what everyone likes and no one wants it. 
</div>

<br>

Let’s come to the light side of this, though we come to this kind of situation, we have certain control of situations that can be done to make sure we change the circumstances. The highlight of what I mean is a change. `Change in mindset and change in circumstances`.

When we do the right things with the right mindset, we can get back on the flow. Ikigai helps to identify what is the right thing to do for certain individuals with a sense of purpose and able to work with almost no effort. 

## How to Create a Purpose?

The Japanese invented a philosophy that stands for Ikigai, which stands for reason. So this helps us determine what it is we want to wake up for in the morning.

So when we do something that we love, how do we really feel about it? We just keep doing it and there’s a flow there. You don’t stop no matter what. Ikigai is something that helps us identify the ingredients that you need to stay in this state, make our pursuit consistent and be happy.

When we do the right things with the right mindset, we can get back on the flow. Ikigai helps to identify what is the right thing to do for certain individuals with a sense of purpose and able to work with almost no effort.

## The Beautiful Ingredients

### The 4 Key Ingredients

Let’s consider this guy John who is part of the toastmaster club and see how he can fit in the Ikigai.

#### Something that We Are Good At

<div align="justify">
Everyone has a skill set. We can learn any skill. We are also born with different abilities like IG, empathy, physical strength, etc. John has skills to code at work.
</div>

#### Love to Do

<div align="justify">
This might seem very obvious. Full-time YouTube content creator. You love the editing and script part of it.
</div>

#### We Have to Get Paid

<div align="justify">
Some say money isn’t important or shouldn’t be a factor. But is that the reality, it pays the bills. To make our efforts sustainable they must generate some sort of an income.
</div>

#### The World Should Need It

<div align="justify">
Now we have to do something that benefits the world. If they don’t it’s simply passion. So the needs of the world can be in any flavor.
</div>

## IKIGAI

* When we are good at and what we love: it’s `passion`
* What we love and what we need: it’s called a `mission`
* What the world needs and what we paid for: `vocation`
* What we are good at and what we are paid for: it’s `profession`

Find the `Ikigai` in you and life would be so much better.

<br />
{% if site.disqus.shortname %}
  {% include disqus.html no_reactions=true %}
{% endif %}